src/resume.md, before:

# Adam A.G. Shamblin 
Polyglot Web Hacker

adam.shamblin@gmail.com

720-320-6448

255 W. 4th Ave. Dr
Broomfield, CO
80020

## Objective

After many years of programming in a big business/B2B setting I'm excited to
move into the small business world.  I'm looking to join a small team of
talented developers to build cutting edge web applications, mobile apps and
anything in between.

## Experience

### Mobile Developer at Imulus
*March 2014 - July 2014*

* Developed complex client applications for both iOS and Android.
* Contributed to open-source libraries such as retina.js.
* Aided in the setup of continuous integration systems like TeamCity.
* Participated in client discussions.
* Acted occassionally as advocate and volunteer mentor at a local accelerator.

**Technology stack:** iOS, Objective C, Android, Java, Linux, Heroku

### Senior Web Developer/Director of Application Development at Datu Health
*May 2013 - December 2013*

* Assembled a fully asynchronous web stack using NGINX, Python and Tornado.
* Wrote a basic collection of custom Python libraries to simplify authentication 
against clients' backend applications and use of RESTful services.
* Trained web developers in Python, Tornado and asynchronous development.
* Introduced Grunt.js for client-side builds, including writing a number of 
custom tasks for managing deployment packages and Cordova mobile builds.
* Provided a basic framework within which to very rapidly grow a technical 
organization. From June through the end of the year took the team from three 
developers to fifteen, with an easy path forward for further growth.

I was invited to join Datu Health (then BickHealth) to design and implement
their web stack which, at the time of my employment, had not yet been
considered. My goal was to put together a fully asynchronous web server using
open source technologies that would allow for rapid development without locking
us into a rigid, opinionated framework.

I ultimately chose Facebook's Tornado web server and Python, with NGINX as a
front-end load balancer. Python is an easy choice as a server-side web language.
It is a clean, powerful language well suited for nearly any task where a
high-level, object oriented language is appropriate. Any competent JavaScript
developer can start working in Python with only minimal training, allowing us to
staff up very quickly.

Contributed to the continued growth and refinement of the D#tu development
platform, including the introduction of an application bus as the primary means
of communication between servers, increased security and configurability between
client engagements, and improved design of stateless applications to operate
within D#tu's growing cloud environment.

**Technology stack:** Python, Tornado, Backbone.js, Grunt.js, jQuery, Redis, MongoDB, Less, Cordova, REST, Node.js


### Director at Markit
*July 2010 - May 2013*

Developed and integrated web applications for Markit products focused largely on
the institutional trading relationship, including commission management. Grew
the Products development team by greater than 300% allowing for an overall
increase in throughput to 25+ concurrent projects.


### Development Manager at Wall Street On Demand
*August 2009 - May 2013*

Lead teams developing high-profile, high-availability web applications for the
financial sector. Responsible for hiring and cultivation of mid to senior level
developers and development leads. Cofounded the MOD Developer University
program.

Continued to contribute as a development resource, building sites in C# .NET/MVC
framework as well as providing training and guidance to team members.

**Technology stack:** C#, .NET/MVC, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap


### Senior Web Developer at Wall Street On Demand
*December 2007 - August 2009*

Grew a team from two to eight developers, with coverage of 6 or more client
relationships at any given time. Responsible for hiring and development of new
employees. As a team lead, I was responsible for the annual reviews of my
teammates, as well as compensation.  

Contributed to a large number of custom
JavaScript libraries for both server- and client-side development.

**Technology stack*: C#, .NET/MVC, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, ASP Classic, Custom JS Libraries (pre-jQuery era!)

### Web Developer at Wall Street On Demand
*June 2006 - December 2007*

Worked independently or on small teams to develop high-end, custom websites for financial and media companies. Responsible for both long-term maintenance and new development.

### Support Tools Developer at Arrow Electronics, Inc.
*January 2002 - June 2006*

Developed web applications to better surface CRM and call center data to IT management. Developed enterprise-wide performance scorecard for the IT organization.


### Craftsman/ Owner at Burnham Wood Log and Timber Smiths
*January 1998 - January 2001*

Hand-crafted log and timber components for new homes or remodels. Complete hand-hewn or Swedish cope
log houses.

<!--BREAK-->

## Projects

### bivouac MVC Framework
*January 2011 to Present*

**Members:** Adam Shamblin

bivouac is a light-weight, wsgi-compliant web framework in Python.  Like so many
tools, biviouac grew out of a larger project with a need for a simple,
non-opinionated web framework.  bivouac provides pattern-driven routing and
patterns for models and views without imposing too much stricture on the
developer.  bivouac is compatible with third party templating tools like
Cheetah.

[Find bivouac on GitHub](https://github.com/coyote240/bivouac)

### Markit Commission Manager
*January 2011 to December 2012*

**Members:** Adam Shamblin, Steven De Salas, Michael Kelly, Adam Gordon, Sofia Rossato

Commission Manager is a prime brokerage trade reconciliation tool enabling brokers and funds in the worlds largest financial institutions to settle their commission differences.

The project involved putting together low-latency trade data feeds using optimised SQL Server and .NET (3.5 and 4.0) middle tier components.

[Commission Manager at Markit.com](http://www.markit.com/Product/Commission-Manager)

### Cofounder WSOD/MOD Developer University
*September 2009 to December 2012*

**Members:** Adam Shamblin, Christopher Bailey, Laura Myers-Wagner, Jenni Tymkovich

The Web Developer University (DevU) program was created to help streamline the
process of growing our development team to meet ever increasing demand.
Conceived by Chris Bailey and myself, and with significant support and guidance
from Laura Wagner and Jenny Tymkovich, our team rapidly developed a curriculum
and a set of success criteria for an ongoing program.

The program is quite simple. MOD will hire at a temporary, hourly rate ten
developer candidates of varying skill levels, but with strong evidence of
aptitude in software development. Often our candidates are recent graduates with
no prior job experience, or experienced software engineers looking to make the
leap to web development. Candidates spend 4 weeks in a classroom setting,
quickly diving deep into web development fundamentals under the guidance
and tutelage of our senior development team.

At the end of the four week period, candidates are assessed, and those
considered successful are offered full-time positions as MOD. In the years since
the DevU project's inception, we have seen an overall 60% hire rate, with a
significant number going on to join our Senior Development team.

<!--BREAK-->

##Volunteer Experience

###Cub Master at Boy Scouts of America
*September 1998 - December 2000*

I began working with the BSA as a den leader to help me to spend more time with, and better get to know my
step-son. I found working with the boys, and the parents, to be very rewarding and a ton of fun!

After several months of service I was invited to replace the current Cub Master who was moving for work. During that time I worked closely with the local BSA councils to help bring the local chapter back in line with current policies, to get our finances in order, and to create room for future growth.

During my tenure we increased the number of trained volunteers significantly, improving the safety and effectiveness of the Pack overall.

## Skills & Expertise (Keywords)

Web Development,
JavaScript,
Software Development,
C#,
Web Applications,
jQuery,
CSS,
Business Analysis,
AJAX,
MVC,
Perl,
Enterprise Software,
Python,
Web Architecture,
JSON,
XML,
XHTML,
HTML,
OOP,
Software Design,
Agile Methodologies,
Application Development,
Subversion,
ASP.NET,
MVC,
.NET,
Integration,
Linux,
Object Oriented Design,
Mobile Applications,
Unix,
Team Leadership,
Architectures,
Apache,
Architecture,
Web Services,
SOA,
Cross-functional Team Leadership,
Git,
Node.js,
Grunt.js,
Backbone.js,
Tornado,
Nginx,
iOS,
Objective C,
Android

Commit message:

Update with MapQuest experience, keywords.

src/resume.md, after:

# Adam A.G. Shamblin 
Polyglot Web Hacker

adam.shamblin@gmail.com

720-320-6448

255 W. 4th Ave. Dr
Broomfield, CO
80020

## Objective

After many years of programming in a big business/B2B setting I'm excited to
move into the small business world.  I'm looking to join a small team of
talented developers to build cutting edge web applications, mobile apps and
anything in between.

## Experience

### Senior Web Engineer at MapQuest
*September 2014 - Present*

* Contributed to new development of the latest MapQuest flagship web
application.
* Development of experience-driven user interfaces on both front and back end.
* Participated in a successful agile/scrum process with high velocity and higher
accountability.
* Actively engaged with senior team in the architecture and implementation of a
complex, client-heavy application.
* Contributed to unit test development with an organic coverage of greater than
85%.

**Technology stack:** AngularJS, ui-router, LeafletJS, Scala, Play! Framework,
    Amazon AWS, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Node.js

### Mobile Developer at Imulus
*March 2014 - July 2014*

* Developed complex client applications for both iOS and Android.
* Contributed to open-source libraries such as retina.js.
* Aided in the setup of continuous integration systems like TeamCity.
* Participated in client discussions.
* Acted occassionally as advocate and volunteer mentor at a local accelerator.

**Technology stack:** iOS, Objective C, Android, Java, Linux, Heroku

### Senior Web Developer/Director of Application Development at Datu Health
*May 2013 - December 2013*

* Assembled a fully asynchronous web stack using NGINX, Python and Tornado.
* Wrote a basic collection of custom Python libraries to simplify authentication 
against clients' backend applications and use of RESTful services.
* Trained web developers in Python, Tornado and asynchronous development.
* Introduced Grunt.js for client-side builds, including writing a number of 
custom tasks for managing deployment packages and Cordova mobile builds.
* Provided a basic framework within which to very rapidly grow a technical 
organization. From June through the end of the year took the team from three 
developers to fifteen, with an easy path forward for further growth.

I was invited to join Datu Health (then BickHealth) to design and implement
their web stack which, at the time of my employment, had not yet been
considered. My goal was to put together a fully asynchronous web server using
open source technologies that would allow for rapid development without locking
us into a rigid, opinionated framework.

I ultimately chose Facebook's Tornado web server and Python, with NGINX as a
front-end load balancer. Python is an easy choice as a server-side web language.
It is a clean, powerful language well suited for nearly any task where a
high-level, object oriented language is appropriate. Any competent JavaScript
developer can start working in Python with only minimal training, allowing us to
staff up very quickly.

Contributed to the continued growth and refinement of the D#tu development
platform, including the introduction of an application bus as the primary means
of communication between servers, increased security and configurability between
client engagements, and improved design of stateless applications to operate
within D#tu's growing cloud environment.

**Technology stack:** Python, Tornado, Backbone.js, Grunt.js, jQuery, Redis, MongoDB, Less, Cordova, REST, Node.js


### Director at Markit
*July 2010 - May 2013*

Developed and integrated web applications for Markit products focused largely on
the institutional trading relationship, including commission management. Grew
the Products development team by greater than 300% allowing for an overall
increase in throughput to 25+ concurrent projects.


### Development Manager at Wall Street On Demand
*August 2009 - May 2013*

Lead teams developing high-profile, high-availability web applications for the
financial sector. Responsible for hiring and cultivation of mid to senior level
developers and development leads. Cofounded the MOD Developer University
program.

Continued to contribute as a development resource, building sites in C# .NET/MVC
framework as well as providing training and guidance to team members.

**Technology stack:** C#, .NET/MVC, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap


### Senior Web Developer at Wall Street On Demand
*December 2007 - August 2009*

Grew a team from two to eight developers, with coverage of 6 or more client
relationships at any given time. Responsible for hiring and development of new
employees. As a team lead, I was responsible for the annual reviews of my
teammates, as well as compensation.  

Contributed to a large number of custom
JavaScript libraries for both server- and client-side development.

**Technology stack*: C#, .NET/MVC, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, ASP Classic, Custom JS Libraries (pre-jQuery era!)

### Web Developer at Wall Street On Demand
*June 2006 - December 2007*

Worked independently or on small teams to develop high-end, custom websites for financial and media companies. Responsible for both long-term maintenance and new development.

### Support Tools Developer at Arrow Electronics, Inc.
*January 2002 - June 2006*

Developed web applications to better surface CRM and call center data to IT management. Developed enterprise-wide performance scorecard for the IT organization.


### Craftsman/ Owner at Burnham Wood Log and Timber Smiths
*January 1998 - January 2001*

Hand-crafted log and timber components for new homes or remodels. Complete hand-hewn or Swedish cope
log houses.

<!--BREAK-->

## Projects

### bivouac MVC Framework
*January 2011 to Present*

**Members:** Adam Shamblin

bivouac is a light-weight, wsgi-compliant web framework in Python.  Like so many
tools, biviouac grew out of a larger project with a need for a simple,
non-opinionated web framework.  bivouac provides pattern-driven routing and
patterns for models and views without imposing too much stricture on the
developer.  bivouac is compatible with third party templating tools like
Cheetah.

[Find bivouac on GitHub](https://github.com/coyote240/bivouac)

### Markit Commission Manager
*January 2011 to December 2012*

**Members:** Adam Shamblin, Steven De Salas, Michael Kelly, Adam Gordon, Sofia Rossato

Commission Manager is a prime brokerage trade reconciliation tool enabling brokers and funds in the worlds largest financial institutions to settle their commission differences.

The project involved putting together low-latency trade data feeds using optimised SQL Server and .NET (3.5 and 4.0) middle tier components.

[Commission Manager at Markit.com](http://www.markit.com/Product/Commission-Manager)

### Cofounder WSOD/MOD Developer University
*September 2009 to December 2012*

**Members:** Adam Shamblin, Christopher Bailey, Laura Myers-Wagner, Jenni Tymkovich

The Web Developer University (DevU) program was created to help streamline the
process of growing our development team to meet ever increasing demand.
Conceived by Chris Bailey and myself, and with significant support and guidance
from Laura Wagner and Jenny Tymkovich, our team rapidly developed a curriculum
and a set of success criteria for an ongoing program.

The program is quite simple. MOD will hire at a temporary, hourly rate ten
developer candidates of varying skill levels, but with strong evidence of
aptitude in software development. Often our candidates are recent graduates with
no prior job experience, or experienced software engineers looking to make the
leap to web development. Candidates spend 4 weeks in a classroom setting,
quickly diving deep into web development fundamentals under the guidance
and tutelage of our senior development team.

At the end of the four week period, candidates are assessed, and those
considered successful are offered full-time positions as MOD. In the years since
the DevU project's inception, we have seen an overall 60% hire rate, with a
significant number going on to join our Senior Development team.

<!--BREAK-->

##Volunteer Experience

###Cub Master at Boy Scouts of America
*September 1998 - December 2000*

I began working with the BSA as a den leader to help me to spend more time with, and better get to know my
step-son. I found working with the boys, and the parents, to be very rewarding and a ton of fun!

After several months of service I was invited to replace the current Cub Master who was moving for work. During that time I worked closely with the local BSA councils to help bring the local chapter back in line with current policies, to get our finances in order, and to create room for future growth.

During my tenure we increased the number of trained volunteers significantly, improving the safety and effectiveness of the Pack overall.

## Skills & Expertise (Keywords)

Web Development,
JavaScript,
Software Development,
C#,
Web Applications,
jQuery,
CSS,
Business Analysis,
AJAX,
MVC,
Perl,
Enterprise Software,
Python,
Web Architecture,
JSON,
XML,
XHTML,
HTML,
OOP,
Software Design,
Agile Methodologies,
Application Development,
Subversion,
ASP.NET,
MVC,
.NET,
Integration,
Linux,
Object Oriented Design,
Mobile Applications,
Unix,
Team Leadership,
Architectures,
Apache,
Architecture,
Web Services,
SOA,
Cross-functional Team Leadership,
Git,
Node.js,
Grunt.js,
Backbone.js,
Tornado,
Nginx,
iOS,
Objective C,
Android,
AngularJS,
LeafletJS,
Karma,
Jasmine,
Protractor
